# Uncle Bob Keynote: 25 zeros

*We came from stars*

## PDP 8 - Half a million adds a second. laptops can do 2 billion adds a second. 6,000 times faster.
### Million times more RAM.
### Several thousand times more space of disk. 
### 50-80 watts vs 1000s of watts

10^25 better than what we had 40 years ago.  10^25 is number of microns in the nearest star.  10^25 is mass of earth in kilograms.

*In the early days quotes weren't invented*

## The interesting thing is our hardware has improved 10^25 but our software and coding hasn't

# Structured Programming book to go read.  Dykstra

## Structured programming is constrained to sequence, selection, iteration.

*TDD is going the same way that the !GOTO statement went, it will just become part of the "Borg" of our software community*

## Matz started out as just a Perl dialect although now it's more influenced by smalltalk and C. 

## Smaltalk was based on Simula 67, which is based on Algol 60 based on Algol 58 which was written by the same guy as fortran.

## Lisp invented 1958, m expressions translated into s expressions.  Based on assembly language IPL 56.  Assembly Language for Lists.

Java based on hatred of C++.  C++ was invented in '79.  Called it 'C with Classes' which was based on Simula as well.

C 1969 Dennis Richie. Based on B, based on BCPL.  Based on CPL Based on Algol 60.

*Notice how I didn't mention pascal*

*As much as things change, they dont really change that much at all*

## The new ideas we are using today are really just recycled ideas.

## 1962: Paper written about intergalactic computer network.

*The electrons in the internet weigh 2 oz*

*We go through all kinds of hard work to invent new technologies that aren't new*

# Don't test any business rules through the UI.

*All languages are fundamentally the same*


*Our languages for the last fifty years have been written around the idea that there is one machine*

## Functional languages are now becoming more interesting now cause of multi-processors

* Haskell
* Erlang
* Clojure (HE likes this the most)

# Structure and Interpretations of Computer Programming

*assignment is a complexity generating thing like multi-threads*


