# Keynote Creativity and Constraints: Neal Ford

## Specific themes invigorates creativity

## Regardless of the costume you can figure out who it is by style.

## Constraints are liberating

*Zen and art of motorcycle maintenance, anecdote: write about county court house, write about brick wall, write about a brick*

*Book yourself only four or five days and force yourself to record, constraint yourself*

From video clip: *Make it harder not easier, build tension, no setlist, no picks taped to the mic*

Book: Dreaming in code. no constraints => Failure.

	public static final void method() {}
	
# Sonnet is a very strict writing medium.
## Within the constraints you see some amazingly creative ideas.

*William Faulkner: "I am a failed poet"*

## Different people have different constraints.

## As a community: ruby and rails community agree on same constraints.

Most terrifying constraint is an easel.

## After photography, painters were no longer responsible for representation but rather interpretation.

## Daguerreotype gave freedom from the *responsibility* of representation

## Java is like the Daguerreotype.

## Software development is a craft

*Art advances the human condition*

*Is is possible to have art in code?*

## Code needs to be non-obfuscating density



## Six universal signatures in astectics
* Expertise or virtuosity: tecnical artistic skills are cultivated, recognized, and admired
* Non utilitarian pleasure: People enjoy art for arts sake, and dont demand that it keep them warm or put food on the table
* Style: artistic objects and performances satisfy rules of composition that place them in a recognizable style
* criticism: people make a point of judging, appreciating, and interpreting works of art
* imitation: with a few important exceptions like abstract painting, works of art.
* Special focus: art is set aside from ordinary life and made a dramatic focus of experience.

*when you dont create things, you become defined by your tastes rather than ability.  your tastes only narrow and exclude people. so create.*